Parasite’s opening shot of a small glass window looking up from a basement house to the view of a narrow winding road, sets the visual language of the film firmly, right at the onset. are many more such shots which metaphorically convey the social and economic disparity that is the central theme of this film. Especially the use of stairs going up and down, cramped spaces versus lush, open green lawns, delectably and elegantly laid out fruit slices as opposed to a clumisly heaped plate of food from a local kitchen. Kim Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) and his family live in a pokey, underground house and are generally unemployed. When we meet them, the family is perturbed that their access to free wifi has been cut short. Obviously not able to afford their own, they have been sponging off their neighbor’s connection. In fact, even as a fumigation carried out on their street, Kim tells his family to leave the windows open so they can have a free extermination of the insects in their house, despite almost choking on the fumes. On some days, they get by with temporary jobs like fixing pizza boxes. So when his son Kim Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) is offered by a friend to be set up as an English tutor to the daughter of a wealthy Mr. Park (Lee Sun-kyun), he agrees. Only hitch, Kim Ki-woo doesn’t have a college degree having failed his university exams. But his sister, Kim Ki-jeong (Park So-dam) presents a quick solution to this with her expert photo-shopping skills. Armed with a forged degree document, Kim makes an easy impression on Mr.Park’s wife, Yeon-kyo (Cho Yeo-jeong) and their teenage daughter, Park Da-hye (Jung ji-so). There’s also their nine-year-old son, Park Da-song (Jung Hyeong), scampering around the house, who Yeon-kyo believes has untapped potential as an artist. With one foot firmly inside the Park household, Kim Ki-jeong craftily places his sister as Da-song’s art teacher cum therapist. Yeon-kyo's naivety and gullible nature makes this inclusion quite smooth. Soon with some careful scheming, fake identities and a well-rehearsed plan even his parents, Kim Ki-taek and Chung sook (Chang Hyae-jin) are employed in the household.
With an indestructible body and brute strength, the slain US Marine Ray Garrison is revived as ‘Bloodshot’ - a biotech killing machine like no other. Dr. Emil Harting (Guy Pearce) breathes new life into Garrison’s body but robs him of all the memories of his past life. A life that is cut short by a psycho killer, who kills Ray’s wife Gina Garrison (Talulah Riley) in cold blood, before killing him too. Based on the Valiant Comics character with the same name, ‘Bloodshot’ sets off with a solid premise for a revenge drama. Add to that, a wholesome dose of sci-fi tropes, give the narrative a thrilling leap of imagination. Like the microscopic ‘nanites’ running in Ray’s bloodstream that can magically heal fatal injuries and give him unbridled power. Within seconds, he can download and learn manuals to fly an aircraft just as easily as he can punch down concrete pillars.
After breaking up with the Joker, Harley Quinn (Margot Robbie) quickly discovers she’s no longer immune from the thugs of Gotham City. Besides a bunch of people she ticked off, she’s also hunted by the misogynistic and sadistic gangster Roman Sionis or Black Mask (Ewan McGregor) with his accomplice Victor Zsasz (Chris Messina). Additionally, a young girl Cassandra (Ella Jay Basco) gets caught in the middle of Harley’s mayhem, along with Renee Montaya (Rosie Perez), Dinah Lance (Jurnee Smollett-Bell) and Helena Bertinelli (Mary Elizabeth Winstead). The women need to team up to have a fighting chance against Black Mask and his goons. From the outset, it’s evident that this film’s colour palette and vibe is bright and intentionally erratic. Director Cathy Yan’s vision borrows from other irreverent superhero and action films before it but maintains a thrilling, manic tonality of its own. This is conveyed through the characterisation, action set pieces, production design and humour. Bringing that vision to life is a capable cast with the magnetic Margot Robbie in the lead. She embodies the frantic energy of Harley Quinn, putting all the character’s eccentricities on display while being inherently compelling. Jurnee Smollett-Bell is a revelation as Dinah Lance/ Black Canary, showing emotional depth. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is a scene-stealer as Helena Bertinelli/ Huntress. Ewan McGregor relishes playing the diabolical Black Mask to make a deranged villain apt for this film.